Add Copilot Coding Agent integration post and related assets (#8608)
Microsoft/vscode-docs: blogs/2025/07/15/copilot-coding-agent.md

# Command GitHub's Coding Agent from VS Code

Today, we’re excited to give you a first look at the Copilot Coding Agent in Visual Studio Code.

> Instead of only having one agent in VS Code, you can now have multiple agents running at once working on your behalf. This is _actually_ being a 10x developer. It's officially a a thing. You get to hand off any work you need done to to a squad of AI teammates.

Reviewer: nit: maybe mention one `synchronous` or `local` agent?

Reviewer 2: like this, updated!

> In this post, we'll take a look at what the coding agent is, give you an exclusive preview of the integrations coming to VS Code and even tell you how you can start using them today.

Reviewer 2: I made these changes - but I do think it's a bit confusing that we use different capitalization than what GitHub does, seems we should stay consistent across products

> In this post, we'll take a look at what the coding agent is, give you an exclusive preview of the integrations coming to VS Code and even tell you how you can start using them today.

Reviewer: Good feedback. I think for this post, using the capitalization you've now added consistently is fine, and then we can revisit in future docs.

## What is GitHub Copilot Coding Agent?

> [GitHub Copilot Coding Agent](https://github.blog/news-insights/product-news/github-copilot-meet-the-new-coding-agent/) is an autonomous AI developer you can assign to any GitHub issue. The agent runs in GitHub and is fully integrated as a member of your repo that can comment on issues, open PR's, do code reviews and more. The agent can tackle complex work, implement features across your codebase, and even use Model Context Protocol (MCP) tools to work with databases or cloud services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[GitHub Copilot Coding Agent](https://github.blog/news-insights/product-news/github-copilot-meet-the-new-coding-agent/) is an autonomous AI developer you can assign to any GitHub issue. The agent runs in GitHub and is fully integrated as a member of your repo that can comment on issues, open PRs, do code reviews and more. The agent can tackle complex work, implement features across your codebase, and even use Model Context Protocol (MCP) tools to work with databases or cloud services.
```

> [GitHub Copilot Coding Agent](https://github.blog/news-insights/product-news/github-copilot-meet-the-new-coding-agent/) is an autonomous AI developer you can assign to any GitHub issue. The agent runs in GitHub and is fully integrated as a member of your repo that can comment on issues, open PR's, do code reviews and more. The agent can tackle complex work, implement features across your codebase, and even use Model Context Protocol (MCP) tools to work with databases or cloud services.

Reviewer 2: agreed, updated!

> 1. You enable the agent in your repo settings.

Reviewer: I'd recommend linking to how to do this and/or including an image

2. You assign an issue to Copilot.
3. The agent does the work, opens a pull request, and keeps you in the loop.
4. You review the PR, leave comments if you want changes, and the agent iterates until it’s done.

![Copilot Coding Agent on GitHub](coding-agent-github.png)

That's all there is to it. It's the workflow you already know with an agent in the mix.

> The agent runs within a temporary, isolated dev environment (similar to GitHub Actions) that gets spun up where the agent can explore the codebase, make changes, build the code, run tests, etc. - a complete dev enviornment just for the agent so it can function in a fully autonomous manner.

Reviewer: It is GitHub Actions - any reason we'd want to say "similar to?"

And now, we're integrating the coding agent and all of its workflows directly into VS Code.

## Copilot Coding Agent in Visual Studio Code

> Copilot Coding Agent integrates with the [GitHub Pull Requests extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.vscode-pull-request-github). You can assign any issue or PR to Copilot Coding Agent right from the sidebar - no need to switch to your browser. Just select, assign, and let the agent take it from there.

Reviewer 2: good catch, done!

![A GIF showing Copilot assigned to an issue from within VS Code](assign-to-copilot-gif.gif)

### Track your agent’s progress

There’s a new **Copilot on My Behalf** query in the Pull Requests view. This shows you everything Copilot is working on for you. Want to see exactly what the agent did? Click "View Session" and watch the play-by-play. You get full transparency into every command and decision. You can also terminate the agent if you're not happy with how things are going. And you can drive all of this without even leaving the editor.

![A WIP PR shown under the "Copilot on my behalf" section with the "View Session" button highlighted](copilot-wip.png)

> In this screenshot, the agent implemented a "trending" section to a website, complete with UI and database changes. All of this is one interaction so it's only one premium request.

Reviewer: Would recommend linking to https://github.blog/changelog/2025-07-10-github-copilot-coding-agent-now-uses-one-premium-request-per-session/.

### Review, comment, and iterate

When the agent is done, it will assign the PR to you and request you as a reviewer. It even includes a screenshot if applicable so you can quickly verify whether it did the right thing or not at all.

![PR from Coding agent shown in VS Code with a screenshot](draft-with-screenshot.png)

You can review the agent’s PR, leave comments, and ask for changes - all from within VS Code. The agent will pick up your feedback, update the PR, and let you know when it's finished.

This workflow integrates beautifully with services that offer previews for pull requests.
For example, if you use Azure Static Web Apps, Vercel, Netlify, and others, you can review the agent's work without even having to check out and run a branch locally.

![Live preview of the site on Netlify but we have an error](live-preview-netlify.png)

> Uh oh - now that we look closely, it looks like we didn't quite get the "Trending" section working. In this case, that's ok. In fact it's good. Our agent couldn't succeed in one shot because it doesn't have access to create the required database changes. Instead, so it created a migration script as part of the PR. That *will* require us to manually check out the PR, but you might feel more comfortable being in control over that sort of change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uh oh - now that we look closely, it looks like we didn't quite get the "Trending" section working. In this case, that's ok. In fact it's good. Our agent couldn't succeed in one shot because it doesn't have access to create the required database changes. Instead, it created a migration script as part of the PR. That *will* require us to manually check out the PR, but you might feel more comfortable being in control over that sort of change.
```

# Announcing Copilot Coding Agent Integration in Visual Studio Code

Today, we’re excited to give you a first look at the Copilot Coding Agent in Visual Studio Code.

> This is a big step - instead of only having one agent in VS Code, you can now have multiple agents running at once working on your behalf. This is _actually_ being a 10x developer. It's officially a a thing. You get to hand off any work you need done to to a squad of AI teammates that never get tired and will actually read the whole issue before starting work.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is a big step - instead of only having one agent in VS Code, you can now have multiple agents running at once working on your behalf. This is _actually_ being a 10x developer. It's officially a thing. You get to hand off any work you need done to a squad of AI teammates that never get tired and will actually read the whole issue before starting work.
```

Author: Removed

The Copilot Coding Agent is now integrated directly into VS Code, making it easier than ever to hand off programming tasks, big or small, and focus on what matters most to you. No more context switching, no more backlog dread - just assign, review, and move forward. And in case you missed it, we just dropped the pricing significantly so that one agent interaction equals one premium request. Which means it doesn't matter how much the angent has to do to complete the work, it's just one request each time you ask it to do something. That's the bargain of the century.

In this post, we'll take a look at what the coding agent is, give you an exclusive preview of the integrations coming to VS Code and even tell you how you can start using them today.

## What is GitHub Copilot Coding Agent?

> GitHub Copilot Coding Agent is an autonomous AI developer you can assign to any GitHub issue. The agent runs in GitHub and is fully integrated as a member of your repo that can comment on issues, open PR's, do code reviews and more. The agent can tackle complex work, implement features across your codebase, and even use Model Context Protocol (MCP) tools to work with databases or cloud services.

Reviewer 4: Maybe explain how to assign to any GitHub issue. And then later ping with @copilot

And now, we're integrating the coding agent and all of its workflows directly into VS Code.

## Copilot Coding Agent in Visual Studio Code

Copilot Coding Agent integrates with the [GitHub Pull Requests extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.vscode-pull-request-github). You can assign any issue or PR to Copilot Coding Agent right from the sidebar - no need to switch to your browser. Just select, assign, and let the agent take it from there.

![A GIF showing Copilot assigned to an issue from within VS Code](assign-to-copilot-gif.gif)

### Track your agent’s progress

There’s a new **Copilot on My Behalf** query in the Pull Requests view. This shows you everything Copilot is working on for you. Want to see exactly what the agent did? Click "View Session" and watch the play-by-play. You get full transparency into every command and decision. You can also terminate the agent - all without leaving the editor.

> ![A WIP PR shown under the "Copilot on my behalf" section with the "View Session" button highlighted](copilot-wip.png)

Author: Yeah - could use all the help i can get!

In this screenshot, the agent implemented a trending section complete with UI and database changes. All of this is one interaction so it's only one premium request.

> 

Author: @olguzzar could i get a hand with this - this is a great idea

### Review, comment, and iterate

When the agent is done, it will request your review on it's PR and assign the PR to you. It even includes a screenshot if applicable so you can quickly verify whether it did the right thing or not at all.

![PR from Coding agent shown in VS Code with a screenshot](draft-with-screenshot.png)

You can review the agent’s PR, leave comments, and ask for changes - all from within VS Code. The agent will picks up your feedback, updates the PR and let you know when it's finished.

> My colleague @pierceboggan pointed out a fascinating workflow here - with services like Azure Static Web Apps, Vercel and Netlify that offer previews for PR's, you can review the agent's work without even having to checkout it's PR and run it locally.

Reviewer 4: No need to call out Pierce explicitly.

![Live preview of the site on Netlify but we have an error](live-preview-netlify.png)

Uh oh - looks like we didn't quite get the trending working. In this case, that's ok. In fact it's good. We didn't get it because our agent doesn't have access to create the required database changes so it created a migraiton script for us instead as part of the PR.

But what if we wanted to give it access to make the database changes to a dev environment? Coding agent has support for MCP servers and provided you have one for your database of choice (in this case supabse), you can [configure MCP servers for the agent on the repo](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/how-tos/agents/copilot-coding-agent/extending-copilot-coding-agent-with-mcp). It's up to you - how autonomous do you want the agent to be?

![MCP configuration shown for copilot coding agent on github.com](coding-agent-mcp-config.png)

> But it gets even better - because you can do all of this right from the agent in VS Code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
But it gets even better - because you can do all of this right from VS Code.
```

This is iffy because the screenshot is GitHub - so it looks like you can't configure MCP for coding agent from within VS Code. So even if you meant it as a transition into the next section, I think it feels a little confusing and a little repetitive (because "within VS Code", "directly in VS Code", "right from the chat in VS Code" is used a few times). You might be able to drop this line altogether.

### Start sessions from Copilot Chat

> We find ourselves wanting to do more and more right from the chat in VS Code. This is where most work and thinking happens and you're not locked into the issue workflow. You can, at any point in a chat - no matter how long, delegate the task directly to the coding agent. All of the context that is currently a part of that chat will get sent to the coding agent.

Reviewer 3: A lot of users probably don't realize there even is a chat - are there ways we can make it more distinct? "chat pane"? "chat view"? "Copilot chat"?" Maybe link to docs about chat in VS Code?

```suggestion
We find ourselves wanting to do more and more right from the [chat pane](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/copilot-chat) in VS Code. This is where most work and thinking happens and you're not locked into the issue workflow. You can - at any point in a chat, no matter how long - delegate the task directly to the coding agent. All of the context that is currently a part of that chat will get sent to the coding agent.
```

Reviewer 3: I don't have a good suggestion but the last sentence feels repetitive.

> The coding agent then opens a PR and goes directly to work - skipping the issue step entirely. It distills down the context into a detailed PR description and you'll see that Copilot Coding Agent makes use of todo lists so that you can see what its doing and where it is in the process at a glance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The coding agent then opens a PR and goes directly to work - skipping the issue step entirely. It distills down the context into a detailed PR description and you'll see that Copilot Coding Agent makes use of "to-do lists" so that you can see what it's doing and where it is in the process at a glance.
```

> ![A GIF that shows the delegate to copilot button in chat](delegate-to-coding-agent.gif)

Author: Yeah - I can fix this

> ![A GIF that shows the delegate to copilot button in chat](delegate-to-coding-agent.gif)

Reviewer 2: updated to be .mp4

## What’s next?

> The Copilot Coding Agent integration in Visual Studio Code is currently in preview, but as with everything we do, we do it all in the open and you can use it all today. If you want to light all of this up in your editor, all you need to do is make sure you have the GitHub Pull Requests extension installed and add the following settings...

Reviewer 4: I think we need to list 5 things that are coming to make this paragraph interesting

@rebornix @bamurtaugh

Author: @olguzzar

Reviewer 2: made some tweaks to this section, would love feedback!

```json
"githubPullRequests.codingAgent.enabled": true,
"githubPullRequests.experimental.chat": true,
"githubPullRequests.codingAgent.uiIntegration": true,
"githubPullRequests.codingAgent.autoCommitAndPush": true,
```

> We recently made the move to fully open source the AI features in VS Code and you can track our progress and open new issues on the vscode repo.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We recently made the move [to fully open source the AI features in VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/blogs/2025/05/19/openSourceAIEditor) and you can track our progress and open new issues [on the vscode repo](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode).
```

## Go forth and 100x yourself

> We can’t wait to see what you build (or, more accurately, what you get the agent to build for you). Keep an eye on the [release notes](/release-notes/) and the [Copilot documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/concepts/about-copilot-coding-agent).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We can’t wait to see what you and your new agent friends build together! Keep an eye on the [release notes](/release-notes/) and the [Copilot documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/concepts/about-copilot-coding-agent) for new developments here.
```

> We can’t wait to see what you build (or, more accurately, what you get the agent to build for you). Keep an eye on the [release notes](/release-notes/) and the [Copilot documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/concepts/about-copilot-coding-agent).
> 
> In the meantime, start making a list of all the things you’d rather not do. Because you’re about to have a new favorite teammate. And no, it doesn’t eat your snacks from the office fridge. I checked.

Reviewer 3: Maybe instead

```suggestion
We can’t wait to see what you and your new agent friends build together! Keep an eye on the [release notes](/release-notes/) and the [Copilot documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/concepts/about-copilot-coding-agent) for new developments here.

In the meantime, start making a list of all the things you’d rather not do. Because you’re about to have a new favorite teammate. And no, it doesn’t eat your snacks from the office fridge. I checked.
```

or maybe reverse it

```suggestion
Keep an eye on the [release notes](/release-notes/) and the [Copilot documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/concepts/about-copilot-coding-agent) for new developments here. In the meantime, start making a list of all the things you’d rather not do. Because you’re about to have a new favorite teammate. And no, it doesn’t eat your snacks from the office fridge. I checked.

We can’t wait to see what you and your new agent friends build together!
```

2. You assign an issue to Copilot.
3. The agent does the work, opens a pull request, and keeps you in the loop.
4. You review the PR, leave comments if you want changes, and the agent iterates until it’s done.

![Copilot Coding Agent on GitHub](coding-agent-github.png)

That's all there is to it. It's the workflow you already know with an agent in the mix.

The agent runs within a temporary, isolated dev environment that gets spun up where the agent can explore the codebase, make changes, build the code, run tests, etc. - a complete dev enviornment just for the agent so it can function in a fully autonomous manner.

And now, we're integrating the Coding Agent and all of its workflows directly into VS Code.

## Copilot Coding Agent in Visual Studio Code

Copilot Coding Agent integrates with the [GitHub Pull Requests extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.vscode-pull-request-github). You can assign any issue to Copilot Coding Agent right from the sidebar - no need to switch to your browser. Just select, assign, and let the agent take it from there.

![A GIF showing Copilot assigned to an issue from within VS Code](assign-to-copilot-gif.gif)

> As with every VS Code feature, the VS Code team itself uses the Coding Agent integration in their own development. In fact, you can see just how many PRs have been assigned [to Copilot Coding Agent in the VS Code repo](https://github.com/search?q=is%3Apr+head%3Acopilot%2F+repo%3Amicrosoft%2Fvscode&type=pullrequests) - and that number continues to increase.

Reviewer: Looks great!

> As with every VS Code feature, the VS Code team itself uses the Coding Agent integration in their own development. In fact, you can see just how many PRs have been assigned [to Copilot Coding Agent in the VS Code repo](https://github.com/search?q=is%3Apr+head%3Acopilot%2F+repo%3Amicrosoft%2Fvscode&type=pullrequests) - and that number continues to increase.

Reviewer 4: Looks good. Thank you
